<!-- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2026 Twilit Jack <twilit.jack@proton.me>
     SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0 -->

# Internal guide

This page describes the official repo's directory structure, crates, and their modules. It is mainly
targeted towards Rust developers who want to contribute to the development of Cadenza.

There are 4 important folders at the repo root:
- `assets/` – Various assets used throughout the project.
- `cdnz` – CDNZ library crate.
- `docs/` – Zensical docmentation source.
- `editor/` – Cadenza editor binary crate.

There's also the `README.md` of the project, and a `Cargo.toml` and `Cargo.lock` for a Cargo
workspace including the `cdnz` and `cadenza` (editor) crates.

The following sections entail detailed information about each directory. Feel free to skip around as
needed.

## `editor/`

Contains the `cadenza` binary crate. Typical binary crate arrangement, except for the `fonts/`
folder, whose files get included in the binary, in the iced system. The fonts are FontAwesome icon
packs, which get used in Cadenza's UI.

A library crate for the LilyPond and Sfizz APIs might be available in the future.

Licensed under AGPL-3.0-or-later.

### GUI code structure

The GUI is made with the [iced](https://iced.rs) crate, using [the Elm architecture
](https://book.iced.rs/architecture.html). If you don't know what either of those things are, read
[the iced book](https://book.iced.rs). It's also very useful if you have some experience with iced,
as Cadenza leverages some more advanced iced features, such as pane grids.

!!! warning

	This section will be written once more features accumulate, and most necessities get resolved with
	a good system I can document and reason about.

## `cdnz`

Contains the `cdnz` library crate. Typical library crate arrangement, except for `examples/` folder,
which contains example `.cdnz` and `.cdnx` files generated by integration tests.

Inline code documentation is available, as well as [docs.rs](https://docs.rs/cdnz/latest/cdnz/),
although it's for the latest release, and may not be up-to-date with the repo.

A full spec of CDNZ will be available in the future, here in the docs.

Licensed under LGPL-3.0-or-later.

## `docs/`

Contains the source files of the documentation you're reading right now. Markdown source files
are located in `docs/` (that is, `docs/docs/` from the repo root (might get changed in the future)).
And a `zensical.toml` is used to manage the final Zensical website.

A Forgejo Action handles updating the codeberg.page website, whenever files get changed in this
folder.

Licensed under CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0.

## `assets/`

Currently only contains the `branding/` folder, which has a few icon and banner designs for Cadenza.

In the future, this might contain LFS-managed, downloadable dependencies or packages for Cadenza, or
some other files.

Licensed under CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0.
